.\" Manpage for dvd_info
.\" Contact steve.dibb@gmail.com to correct errors or typos.
.TH dvd_info 1 "04 August 2018" "1.3" "dvd_info man page"
.SH NAME
dvd_info \- display information about a DVD
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBdvd_info\fR [options] [\-t track number] [dvd path]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBdvd_info\fR displays information about a DVD including its tracks, playback length, audio tracks, codecs, languages, subtitles, and chapters.

Output formats are human-readable text, JSON, OGM chapter format, DVD id or title.

DVD path can be a device name, a single file, or a directory. Default is optical drive.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-t, --track # \fR
Limit to one track number (default: longest)
.TP
\fB-t, --track \fB[\fRtrack number\fB]\fR
Only display information about one title track.

.SH DETAILED INFORMATION
.TP
\fBdvd_info\fR displays disc title and a summary of each track in human-readable format.
.TP
For additional output:
.TP
\fB-a, --audio \fR
Display information about any audio streams.
.TP
\fB-v, --video \fR
Display information about the video stream.
.TP
\fB-c, --chapters \fR
Display chapters on tracks.
.TP
\fB-s, --subtitles \fR
Display subtitle tracks (VobSub).
.TP
\fB-d, --cells \fR
Display cells on tracks.
.TP
\fB-x, --all \fR
Display all information.

.SH FORMATTING
.TP
\fB-j, --json \fR
Display all information in JSON output.
.TP
\fB-o, --ogm \fR
Display OGM chapter format for specified track (default: longest).
.TP
\fB-i, --id \fR
Display DVD id only (from libdvdread).
.TP
\fB-T, --title \fR
Display UDF volume name only (dvd path must be a device or a file).

.SH HISTORY
dvd_info closely mirrors the human-readable output of lsdvd.

.SH SEE ALSO
dvd_copy(1), dvd_drive_status(1), dvd_eject(1)

.SH AUTHOR
Steve Dibb (steve.dibb@gmail.com) http://dvds.beandog.org
